Let's walk through an example of parsing base64 encoded data using Spark.
The first thing I'm going to do is make sure that Spark is up and running.
I'm going to type ps -ef.
I see a bunch of Java processes which tells me Kafka is running.
I also see Redis running,
but I don't see any process that has the word Spark in it.
So I'm going to start Spark in another terminal.
I'm going to cd /home/workspace/spark/sbin,
and I will see two commands that I need in here.
I'm going to say./start-master.sh.
I'm copying the log and I'm going to tail the log
with tail -f and the log directory and filename.
I see the spark URI.
I'm copying that. I'm going to break out of tail,
which won't hurt anything.
I'm going to run the start-slave.sh and pass the master URI.
Now I have Spark running,
and if I run ps -ef,
I see two Spark processes.
That means we're ready to start coding.
You'll notice something a little different in
this starter code that we have for this exercise.
I've already imported the libraries as usual,
but I've also created a schema for you.
This schema represents the format of messages
that come from the Redis-Kafka source connector topic.
The next thing I'm going to do is create a schema for
the embedded reservation data that I expect to see coming through.
The format of the message looks like this.
I'm going to create a schema for that.
It has a reservationId, customerName, truckNumber, reservationDate.
I'm going to call this reservationSchema,
and it's a StructType,
and it accepts a array of struct fields.
Each one needs to match the JSON field name.
So we start with reservationId,
and it's a StringType.
The next one is going to be customerId and that's also a StringType.
I'm actually going to paste in here a more complete JSON sample.
I need to fix my spelling of customer.
I actually have these fields: reservationId, customerId,
customerName, truckNumber, reservationDate, checkInStatus, origin, and destination.
The next field is called customerName, and it's a string.
The field after that is truckNumber, string as well.
The next one is a reservationDate,
but we're going to treat it like a string.
CheckinStatus is a string as well.
The origin field is a string as well.
The last field is a destination,
which is a string as well.
Now we're going to create our Spark session that we're going to
use for the rest of this code.
Remember, you're going to have to import this when you write
your own Python because it won't just be there.
We're going to call this truck-reservation.
Let's set the logging level,
and let's read from Kafka.
I'm going to call this first data frame the reservationRawStreaming data frame.
I'm going to call.readStream and.format,
we'll call that Kafka format.
We need to pass the option for kafka.bootstrap.servers with the host name and the port.
The next option is the topic name,
they call it subscribe,
and it's called redis-server.
We're going to say startingOffsets,
starting at earliest. We're going to load it.
Next, we're going to convert these from binary to string.
So we'll create another data frame to hold that called reservationStreamingDF.
We need to take the RawStreamingDF and do a select expression.
We're going to cast the key as a string,
and we'll call the key reservationId.
Let's cast the value as a string as well.
We'll call it reservationJson.
Next, we want to take the JSON into independent fields.
We need to start with the data frame we had last.
We're going to call the withColumn method,
and the name of the column we are working with is reservationJson.
We're going to use a from_json method,
and we're going to extract data from the reservationJson field.
We're going to use the schema called reservationSchema.
Then we're going to select the subfields.
Then we're going to createOrReplaceTempView.
The view we're going to call this is RedisData.
Actually, I think we're going
to change this from reservationId to key because we actually won't have that yet.
We're just going to have a key and a value,
but it's just the raw data.
We're actually using the redisMessageSchema first.
We're going to extract the JSON out of that,
and then we're going to extract JSON again that's
embedded inside which is the reservationSchema.
We want to start with the redisMessageSchema actually.
Now we're going to create a view called RedisData,
and then we're going to select the data out of it.
We want to get specifically the key,
and then we want to get the first zSetEntry out of it.
We're going to do that with a query.
Let's change these to redisServerRawStreamingDF.
This one is redisServerStreamingDF.
This is redisServerRawStreamingDF.
This is redisServerStreamingDF.
Now we're going to do our query.
We're going to call this zSetEntriesEncodedStreaming data frame
because it has base64 data in it.
We're going to use the spark.sql.
We're going to select key,
and zSetEntries 0 as
the reservation from RedisData.
Now we're going to go ahead and unbase64 the columns in here that we want.
We're going to say zSetDecodedEntriesStreamingDF
equals zSetEntriesEncodedStreamingDF.withColumn.
We're modifying a column called reservation,
which was base64 encoded,
and soon it will not be.
Unbase64 the zSetEntriesEncodedStreamingDF.
and the field name.
We're going to cast this as a string.
Now we should have a decoded streaming data frame.
The next thing we're going to do is create
a view that has the JSON decoded out of base64.
I mean, we're not in base64 anymore.
So now we need to decode the non-encoded JSON.
We're going to say zSetDecodedEntriesStreamingDF.withColumn.
In here, we have a column called reservation,
which is just JSON.
Right now, we want to extract the JSON to separate fields.
So we're going to say from_json,
pass it the field name,
and we do have a reservationSchema.
We're going to use that.
We're going to say.select and col.
In here, we need to tell it the name of the fields we want;
reservation.* all the fields.
Then we're going to create a temporary view,
and it's called TruckReservation.
Now I'm going to say truckReservationStreaming.
DF equals spark.sql.
Select star from TruckReservation where reservationDate is not null.
So we want all the non-null reservation dates,
which basically means that the JSON parsed
correctly and we got an actual reservation records,
not something else from Redis.
Now we're going to stream this to the console.
We're going to say truckReservationStreamingDF.writeStream.outputMode,
append.format is console, and then we're going to start it and await termination.
I'm going to go to my home/workspace/spark/sbin folder,
excuse me, home/workspace/spark folder
list and I have a script submit-reservation-base64.sh.
Line 51, invalid syntax.
Spark. sparkContext.setLogLevel warn.
Well one thing we can do is remove that line and see what happens after that.
Save that. Invalid syntax,
redisServerrawStreamingDF equals Spark.read stream.
I have a feeling that my code is wrapping here in a weird way.
I think this Spark didn't get instantiated.
I'm going to get down one more line.
The other thing I'm going to do is look at this file in the line editor,
because I have a feeling that's part of the problem.
I'm changing to the home workspace folder, I'm going to do and ls,
and then I'm going to do vi reservation base64.py.
Let's see what we have in here.
I do have a Spark session instantiated.
I have my SparkContext.
I have my data frame equals spark.readStream.
I see it. I didn't properly terminate the app name,
so that would be a problem.
Now I'm going to do colon q exclamation,
and then I'm going to run the script again.
Submit-reservation-base-64.sh. Then it says,
unexpected character after line continuation character on line 62.
I'm going to go back to my line editor.
I'm going to quit out of here.
Submit-reservation-base-64.sh.
Unexpected character after line continuation character.
Well, one thing we can do is get rid of the line continuation and to dot load directly.
That happened because I modified it outside the editor.
Line 70, invalid syntax.
That should be a slash from JSON, line 70.
We have from JSON,
and then we have that.
We were missing a print there.
Line 79 on base-64, line 63.
An error occurred when calling withColumn due to data type mismatch.
Argument one requires string type.
Reservation is a struct element type.
Line 79.
I'm just looking at this here,
so we have streamingDF.reservation.
Unbase-64, it's saying that this column has embedded data in it.
Oh, I see this.
ZSetEntries0.element.
Because I wasn't parsing it,
the element, I was parsing in the whole collection there.
That's the reason I did that.
Batch zero is showing no data.
This is because I changed the log,
sorry, the wrong one.
Now one thing we need to probably check is if we have data
going into that collection right now, as reservations.
It looks like nothing's going in there.
In the guide, we started Kafka using this button.
I think if I go data/redis/redis-stable/src/ redis-cli -a not really.
I do keys.
If I say zrange, Reservation,
zero minus one, we've got data,
but we're not getting any new data.
Sometimes what happens is the data that's getting read in from
the Kafka source connector for Redis ends up being missed until Kafka Connect starts.
If these records were written before Kafka Connect finished starting up,
then they won't show up.
One thing I can do is just take and zadd one of these.
If I say zadd Reservation zero,
and I'd changed the destination to Kentucky.
That should create a record.
There we go. Here's the data that we should've seen when things started up.
We have a reservation ID,
a customer ID, a customer name,
a truck number, a reservation date,
an empty check in status.
If we look at the data we just parsed,
it says check-in status as checked out.
The reason that didn't properly parse, can you see it?
It's the I, so I told you the StructField has to match exactly with the JSON.
Because the I is off,
it didn't catch that field.
Then we have the origin of Wisconsin and the destination of Kentucky.
That demonstrates reading data from a Kafka source connector that's
connected to Redis in Spark on base-64,
encoding the data and extracting the JSON as usable fields.
I'm going to stop the Spark application here,
and I'm going to exit out of the red cli.